# APPENDIX H - RLS INFORMATION

**H-1 C/S T.018 – Issue 1 Rev. 12**  
**October 2024**

## H.1 Information to be Included in the User Manual of an RLS Type-1 Automatic Acknowledgement Capable Beacon

This beacon has the Return Link Service (RLS) feature. The RLS feature is an indication on the beacon that confirms to the beacon user that the distress signal from an activated beacon has been localised by the Cospas-Sarsat system and is being sent to the responsible search-and-rescue (SAR) authorities. It does NOT mean that a search and rescue has yet been organized/launched, but only confirms that the distress alert has been received by the Cospas-Sarsat System and is being routed to the appropriate SAR agencies.

The RLS is designed to send an acknowledgment to the beacon user in less than 30 minutes from beacon activation (actual acknowledgement times are typically much quicker). Alerting of the distress to SAR authorities is independent of (and may occur before) the RLS acknowledgment indication on the beacon. The RLS specification is described in the Galileo SAR Service Definition Document:
(https://www.gsc-europa.eu/sites/default/files/sites/all/files/Galileo-SAR-SDD.pdf).

RLS is an optional function and may not be permitted in all countries or for all beacon types. You may visit the web page Where Can I Buy an RLS-Enabled Beacon?
(https://cospas-sarsat.int/en/beacon-ownership/rls-enabled-beacon-purchase) to learn the most recent information about national support for RLS.

Cospas-Sarsat strongly recommends that you appropriately register your beacon. It only is possible to register a beacon in the registry operated by the country matching the "country code" electronically programmed into the beacon (or the International Beacon Registration Database (IBRD) (https://www.406registration.com/) if the country uses the IBRD for their registrations). For example, it only is possible to register a beacon with a French country code in France's national registry. However, owners of Belgian-coded beacons must register in the IBRD. The country code is encoded in the beacon's unique identification number (UIN, also called Hex ID), which is used to register the beacon. Visit the web page Beacon Registration Contacts (https://www.406registration.com/countriessupported.aspx) to see where you can register your beacon.

---

**H-2 C/S T.018 – Issue 1 Rev. 12**  
**October 2024**

## H.2 Information to be Included in the User Manual of an RLS Type 3 TWC-Capable Beacon

This beacon features the Two-Way Communication (TWC) capability.

The TWC function provides the beacon user with a confirmation indication that the distress signal from an activated beacon has been detected by the Cospas-Sarsat System and is being transmitted to the responsible Search-And-Rescue (SAR) Authorities.

It is important to note that this confirmation does NOT imply that a search and rescue operation has been organized or initiated. In addition, the TWC feature enables the beacon user to establish communication with the appropriate SAR Authorities.

TWC functionality relies on the exchange of information between beacon user and SAR Authorities, aiming to facilitate and enhance SAR operations by allowing the beacon user to provide valuable information to, or receive instructions from, SAR Authorities.

Upon beacon activation, a series of initial automatic questions will be displayed for the beacon user to respond to. The answers encoded by the user will be transmitted to the SAR Authorities as soon as possible. SAR Authorities have the capability to send new or previously asked questions and instructions to the beacon user.

New messages sent from SAR Authorities will take priority over the initial automatic questions should the user not have completed answering them.

The TWC is designed to send an acknowledgment to the beacon user in less than 30 minutes from beacon activation (actual acknowledgement times are typically in the order of few minutes).

It is important to highlight that alerting the distress to SAR authorities is independent of, and may occur before, the TWC acknowledgment indication on the beacon. The TWC specification is detailed in the Galileo SAR Service Definition Document Issue (TBD).

TWC is an optional function and may not be permitted in all countries or for all beacon types. You may visit the web page Where Can I Buy an TWC-Enabled Beacon? (TBD) to learn the most recent information about national support for TWC.

Cospas-Sarsat strongly recommends that you appropriately register your beacon. It only is possible to register a beacon in the registry operated by the country matching the "country code" electronically programmed into the beacon or the International Beacon Registration Database (IBRD) (https://www.406registration.com/) if the country uses the IBRD for their registrations. For example, it only is possible to register a beacon with a French country code in France's national registry. However, owners of Belgian-coded beacons must register in the IBRD. The country code is encoded in the beacon's unique identification number (UIN, also called Hex ID), which is used to register the beacon. Visit the web page Beacon Registration Contacts to see where you can register your beacon. (https://www.406registration.com/countriessupported.aspx)

**– END OF APPENDIX H –**